Jep 3.5 Release Notes
*********************
This release emphasized improved performance and code cleanup.  It is
compatible with Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, and 3.5.  *Ben Steffensmeier
joined the project as a key contributor.*


Improved performance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Jep now has improved caching of java.lang.Class and java.lang.reflect.Method
objects for faster performance overall.  The most notable speedups will be
seen when there are a large number of Java method invocations from Python.


Code cleanup
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Major components of Jep were modularized, cleaned up, and formatted to
improve maintainability of the code and encourage more contributions.


Improved import hook and ClassEnquirer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The jep import hook for importing Java classes into Python and the associated
ClassEnquirer interface have been improved for consistency and ease of use.
Jep is also now able to support package introspection (list available
sub-packages and classes) if implemented by the ClassEnquirer implementation.
The default implementation ClassList supports this capability.


Added PyJNumber type
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A new type PyJNumber has been created to enable developers to more closely match
Python syntax when working with Java Numbers.  PyJNumber extends PyJObject to
retain all previous functionality.  PyJNumbers can be used in math operations
with Python numbers, but the result will always be a Python number.  If the
return type or precision of a mathematical operation are important, it is
not recommended to use PyJNumber's convenience methods/operators.


Redirect streams
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Jep can now redirect Python's stdout and stderr to Java's System.out and
System.err.  This may assist logging in some applications and is available
through the new Jep(JepConfig) constructor.

