Jep 4.2 Release Notes
*********************
This is a minor version increment that mostly includes bug fixes and
compatibility improvements. This release has been tested with Python versions
from 3.6 to 3.12 and Java versions 8, 11, 17, and 21. Thanks to all the
contributors who have submitted code to improve this release.

Improved support for varargs
****************************
Support for varargs has been implemented in several places

* Varargs support has improved for choosing which overloaded Java method to
  call from Python. *Contributed by @andvazqu.* 
* Java constructors using varargs can now be called from Python.
* Proxy Java Objects will unpack varargs to call Python functions.

Custom converters for Java Objects in Python
********************************************
Developers can now configure custom converters for creating a Python object
from a Java object. For more details on how to register a custom converter see
`the wiki <https://github.com/ninia/jep/wiki/Accessing-Java-Objects-in-Python#custom-conversion-functions>`_
or exec ``help(jep.setJavaToPythonConverter)`` in a Jep interpreter.

PyJType for java.util.Map now implements keys() and items()
***********************************************************
This allows Java Maps to be easily converted to Python dictionaries in
situations where duck typing is not good enough and a dictionary is required.

Additions of PyBuiltins
***********************
The `PyBuiltins <http://ninia.github.io/jep/javadoc/4.2/jep/python/PyBuiltin.html>`_
class provides makes it easier to call some of the builtin Python functions
from Java.

Java FunctionalInterfaces are automatically callable in Python 
**************************************************************
When a Java object implementing a
`FunctionalInterface <https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/21/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/FunctionalInterface.html>`_
is used in Python it is automatically 
`callable <https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-callable>`_
and the `__call__` method will be set to the abstract method of the interface.
Similar to the Java compiler, the type is not required to have the
FunctionalInterface annotation to be treated as a functional interface.
For example a Java Function can be called directly without using the accept method:
::
    from java.util.function import Predicate
    isFoo = Predicate.isEqual("foo")
    result = isFoo("abc") # Same behavior as isFoo.test("abc")

Java Methods can be Annotated to accept Python kwargs
*****************************************************
The `@PyMethod <http://ninia.github.io/jep/javadoc/4.2/jep/PyMethod.html>`_ 
annotation can be used on a constructor or method in a Java class to customize
the behavior of Jep when the method is called from Python. The most notable 
customization is the ability to pass kwargs from Python to Java. Jep will
automatically convert the kwargs to a PyObject or Map. It is still possible
for a Java method to accept varargs from Python using Java style varargs syntax
but the ``@PyMethod`` provides an additional way to specify a Java method
accepts varargs that enables mixing varargs and kwargs. 

For example the following Java method signature shows a method that can be
called from Python using both varargs and kwargs:
::
    @PyMethod(varargs=true, kwargs=true)
    public void exampleMethod(Object[] varargs, Map<String,Object> kwargs) {
        // do stuff
    }

Support for isolated SubInterpreter
***********************************
When using Python 3.12 or greater it is now possible to created isolated
SubInterpreters which have separate GILs to improve concurrency. This feature
can be enabled by setting the 
`SubInterpreterOptions <https://ninia.github.io/jep/javadoc/4.2/jep/SubInterpreterOptions.html>`_
on
`JepConfig <https://ninia.github.io/jep/javadoc/4.2/jep/JepConfig.html>`_
to SubInterpreterOptions.isolated(). For more details about how
isolated sub-interpreters are different from ordinary interpreters refer to
`PEP-684 <https://peps.python.org/pep-0684/>`_

